Hey, welcome back.
I want to show you one more scenario with regards to passing inputs into methods.
Let's say that you want to create a method that can take any number of inputs, but you don't know how
many inputs you'll need beforehand.
One example of this already exists, and we've seen it a number of times any time we have a public static
void.
Main method The public static void main methods always take an array of strings called args.
This is the standardized signature of the entry point into any Java application.
OK.
This is kind of a contractual pattern here.
The nice thing about this approach is that the program does not have to know beforehand how many arguments
a user of the program may want to pass in, right?
That's why they're using an array here.
You can pass in any number so we can actually create our own methods that use this same approach.
So I will just put my cursor here and I'm going to create a method real quick.
Let's see, and I don't know for now, we'll just make it void, and I will just call it test because
this is just some temporary, temporary thing that I just want to show you.
So let's say we have this method that will take a string array called words.
And what it's going to do with these words may not even matter right now.
So I will just put a commentary, do something clever with words.
All right.
Now, if we want to call this test method that would look like this, we could do something like one
dot test and then we can pass in an array of words so we could do something like new string array.
Just like that, so that's one way we could do this, another way is that we could create the string
array outside of the call of the method, right?
So we could say I'm going to have a string array called words and then say, give me a new string array
like this.
And then pretty much do the same thing like we're doing below one.
To three.
Then down here, we could just pass in the reference to the words variable, like, so OK, so there's
a lot of ways that we can do this.
Not all of which I'm showing you right now.
However, since Java version five, I believe they created another way to pass in a variable list of
arguments.
And that technique is actually called VAR.
ARGs VAR.
Yes, var args.
Meaning variable number of arguments.
We use this with methods when we don't necessarily know how many arguments of the same type a caller
of our method will be passing in.
We can use VAR, args and the benefit of using VAR args over an array is really just that.
It's it's a little more natural and easier for the caller to actually make this call.
So what I will do here is I will create another method public void, and I will just call this one Test
two and will make it appear to do the same thing that our test method does.
Our first test method does, but we won't use an array.
We'll use barracks.
So our test method takes an array of strings, right?
So the equivalent of that with VAR args would be to declare an input type of string.
However, here's where we defer.
Instead of using the square brackets to say we are going to be passing in an array of strings, we use
three dots or ellipses to indicate that this will be a VAR ARG of type string.
And then we can state what the actual variable is going to be called.
And still, I can call it words if I like.
And do something clever, clever, and we'll come back to that in just a moment.
But now to call this is a little bit more convenient P. one test, too.
So if I do the equivalent of what we're doing here, passing in one, two and three to do that with
the P, with the test tube method, all I have to do is just start typing in the the the words the strings
right away.
One comma separated two three.
Like so and so that's just a little more convenient.
I don't have to bother instantiating an actual array, and there are a few other things that we can
do with this that are kind of nice.
So what if I wanted to pass in a few other arguments that are not strings in addition to my array?
Right?
So up here, if I wanted to pass in a couple of numbers first, I could say int number one and number
two comma and then my array of strings, right?
I can do that.
Now I just broke this call.
So now down here, I have to update this and say something like, you know, whatever three comma,
five comma words, right?
I can still do that with VAR args as well.
And it's pretty much exactly the same.
And number one and number two and then I've got my string VAR here and then down here.
Now here's where it's a little interesting, though, because it'll look a little different up here.
I'm literally passing in exactly three arguments, right?
The three, the five and then the words and appear.
It looks like I'm expecting exactly three arguments because I am on on the test method.
Number one, two and then words.
But down here, because I'm using VAR args, it looks here in test tubes signature.
That is the the description of the method.
It looks like I'm expecting three arguments, but because of the way that VAR args work when I call
this guy properly, such as with passing in a three comma five, it looks like I'm passing in five arguments.
OK.
So that actually does raise one point that you need to be a little bit careful with if you are going
to use VAR args and I love VAR args.
They're very, very useful.
They just saved me from having to type, you know, the extra bits to create an array.
The VAR ARG part has to be the last argument in your method signature.
OK, so this bit here with the three ellipses has to come at the end.
Let me show you what will happen, in fact, if I move this to the beginning.
So if I put this in front, I get an error.
And if I hover over this, VAR arc parameter must be the last in the list.
OK?
And the reason for that is should be maybe kind of obvious, since VAR args allow us to pass in any
number of arguments.
How would Java know when we're done passing in the things that should be part of the words versus the
rest of this?
Especially, let's say, if I change the data type here?
You could argue that, oh, well, you know, if you're using int, then it should know that way because
this was a string or are this is a string bar and these are int.
But let's say that, you know, we might have made these strings.
And now it's even more ambiguous, right, as to, you know, which strings go for words and which strings
go for number one and number two, right?
Or and I could have made this Varg a bar of integers, right?
And and then these could be ins.
And so you still have the same ambiguous situation there.
And so for that reason, your VAR args have to be the last argument in your method declaration.
OK.
Like that now to access the individual items in the VAR ARG.
That's actually pretty convenient because the dirty little secret is that VAR args really are just arrays.
This is really just a nice shorthand for creating an array that basically that the the ADP is doing
us a favor, essentially making it very convenient for us to basically still just do what we're doing
up here on Line 48.
So let's say I wanted to print out the first word in my VAR ARG variable called words, so I could do
something like the print line words and then I can just use the square bracket.
There you go.
There's the first one.
The second one, the third one, et cetera, et cetera.
Same thing that I would have done with an array.
Now you'll want to be careful, though, because since you can have a variable number of arguments in
here or elements really in this word's variable, you'd want to make sure you know how many were passed
in before you just start hard coding a number like this, right?
And really, later on, when we learn about control flow, you'll learn ways that you can make loops
that will just loop over the elements in this array.
And then you don't even have to know up front how many elements are in the array or, in this case,
the VAR arc, right?
But essentially, everything that you can do with an array you can do with these Ferragu.
So if you want to get the length, you can do that word's dot length.
There you go.
Because underneath the hood, it's still just an array, and there are a number of methods that come
with Java that make heavy use of these VAR args, in fact.
So you will see these from time to time with some of those methods.
But like I said, very convenient technique.
It saves us from having to type out and create an actual instance of an array ourselves.
Basically, the JVM, the Java virtual machine Java will create it for us if our method is expecting
a VAR arc.
And so that will, in this lesson, just wanted to show you that it's very convenient and something
you definitely should put in your toolbox and use when necessary.
See in the next one.